Good morning and welcome to the
Social Services and Community Committee.
Uh, we have you, uh, until nine 40,
um, or 9 35.
Um, but if we wanted to introduce yourselves
and, uh, give us a bit of an overview
and, um, I, questions from the committee.
Appreciate it. Kia took, uh, um,
and thank you for the warm welcome.
My name's Mike Ali
and I am the chair of the Social Work Registration Board,
but my relatively new chair appointed in January
of this year.
Um, to my right,
Sarah Clarke is the chief executive who I think you're aware of.
And behind us, we've got a strong cohort of support of some
of the other leaders in SWR.
Being able to answer some of, some
of your questions, we struggle a bit.
Um, so we provided an, I know you've got, uh, our answers
to your written questions and we recently
provided a PowerPoint
presentation about who we are and what we do.
Um, I'm not proposing that we run you through that
'cause actually keen to have that conversation.
Um, but I do want to kind of make some opening
and scene setting remarks, really.
Um, so while the SWRB has been around for over 20 years,
mandatory registration of social workers only came into
effect in 2021.
And that result in a quite significant period of growth,
both in terms of the numbers
of social workers on the register.
So between 2019
and 2022, the number
of social workers on practicing certificates doubled.
And, and we're now, I think at about 12,000 social
workers on the register.
That growth and meeting
that demand meant there was a growth in the
size of the organization.
It brought challenges.
Um, financial ones, uh, were one of the first, the bulk
of our income is fee-based.
We rely on the fees and just the nature of
that business means there is inevitable lag.
Um, so, um, so the challenge of finances,
the challenge then in just building systems
to manage the new statutory responsibilities.
And, um, and we've seen an increase in complaints.
Um, and that's something that's continued
through to the present day.
Um, and essentially having gone through that startup phase,
I think we are really now at the point where we've got
to relatively steady state.
Um, and it really is time to take the next step
and continue our growth and mature as a regulator.
Um, so in terms of that, just a few highlights.
So what we're, um, so we're progressing the amendments that,
the changes that came with the amendments to the act
for which we are very grateful,
which will improve our regulatory practice and processes.
We're moving to implement a new regulatory strategy which
will provide greater transparency both for social workers,
employers, and importantly the public.
We recently agreed some new education standards
for social work training, uh, which will,
is responding to the workforce needs.
We know we have. And that's very much focused
and geared towards both incentivizing excellence in teaching
and some flexibility in delivery.
We continues to grow our really rich source of data.
We've probably got an amazing data set about the workforce.
Um, and, uh, we have an incredibly, uh,
high response rate from social
'cause when we go out and seek their views.
Um, and that, uh, data has been very instrumental in
what will, in establishing what will be the first national
strategy and action plan for the social worker cross.
And importantly, we have a continued, um,
focus on prudent fin financial management, um,
and what's meant that this year have been conscious
of the environment we've been able to hold the fees
for social workers and for the board.
Um, that affordability question is very live
and it will continue to be a, a feature in our minds.
Um, having kind of given that, um, highlight,
I guess the other bit I kind of want
to just say is go back to the beginning.
So I am the new chair, um,
and I've also been joined by three other new members.
And we are current recruiting for a further one.
So we're a board of seven. Um, so that's five changes.
That's quite a significant change.
And I'm saying that 'cause I really want
to acknowledge the previous board and chair
'cause they lay laid the foundation for us to progress some
of the things that we want to do and see how it's important
and, and ending on a personal.
So I am a registered social worker.
I've been a social worker since 1978, um,
practice both here and in the uk.
Um, I am proud of my profession.
Um, uh, and, and one of the reasons I'm on the body
because our, I'm committed to the importance
and their value of registration.
Social work can, has the potential to do tremendous good.
It also has the potential to cause harm.
And that's why regulation becomes important.
So as a regulator, as registration,
it not only enhances the profession,
it can provide build trust
and competence in the public in what we do.
And importantly, the people we serve have an absolute right
that when a social worker knocks on their door, they know
what they're doing, they know how to do it, they do it well,
and they know when to seek help.
And that's really important if we're gonna really achieve
the potential that social work has to make change.
I'll now hand you over to Sarah.
Nice morning. Um, um, I'm not really going
to add much more because I,
I think the most rich part will probably be in the questions
from, from the committee.
Uh, the only thing I wanted to add, um,
'cause some of these members we, we, uh,
met earlier in the year with the amendment bill.
I just wanted to express my thanks really, um, for,
for supporting those changes.
But also to let you know just how the debate
and, and the comments from MPS in the
house on that legislation.
It means so much to the profession
because they are forever on the receiving end of criticism.
To have the contribution
and value of the profession acknowledged in
that way is really significant.
And as we strive for that enhanced professionalism, um,
those are the things that matter.
And, and the reason I think it's important, I mean, I'm not,
I'm not a registered social worker.
Um, but I believe in the profession and, and,
and what it can do.
But it's really important that for the participants
and those who use social work services,
who are often in an involuntary situation,
they don't choose necessarily
to engage with a social worker.
That we find ways to build trust in the system.
Because, because that's the only way it's gonna work.
And that's the only way we're gonna generate change if,
if people actually believe the system can work.
So we see ourselves as an important contributor,
not the sole one,
but at a system level, we've got our part to play.
Um, and that's really the ethos
behind the, the approach we take.
So I, I thought perhaps you might have specific questions
about the presentation or, um, or just in general.
It's, it's probably, uh,
it would be maybe 2022 the last time we came here
for this more general conversation.
Um, we've talked about bits of legislation previously,
so it is really like, would you like a bit of history?
Would you like a sense of where we are going?
Um, you know, I've been with the board for eight years now,
so I came in just as the legislation
was coming in to be changed.
So I've been on that journey.
So if you'd like to know, how did we get here?
Um, the highlights, the lowlights
or where, where do we wanna get to?
Um, um, I can draw on that and,
and help chart you where we are headed.
Well, uh, thank you very much both of that
and, uh, just, just like saying what, thank you very much
for all the work that you do
and also the, the work that the, um,
social workers across New Zealand do that's hugely important
to our communities and individuals
and families, um, all, all across the country.
And just on that, I might just be checking,
ask the very first question, um, just, I just, how do you,
um, uh, manage that relationship across, you know,
from the bottom of the south, the top of the north, um,
with a relatively small board
and this, uh, professionalization process
that you've been going through. Mm-hmm.
So maybe, shall I? Mm-hmm. Yeah.
So, so, um, so well, you know, we know
that social workers are spread from the bottom to the top.
Um, and,
and probably it's where some of
that post COVID environment has given us some new tools
with a degree of acceptance that, you know, the online, um,
hooey so we can reach out without necessarily always having
to have the cost of actually traveling
to being places in person.
Um, and, and that that applies
to not just the social workers
or the applicants, it also applies to employers.
And I think the role of employers is we, we are going
to be spending a bit more time in the future
because employers are pivotal in creating the sort
of environment in which social workers can operate safely.
Um, and we are in the process
of refreshing our strategic communications
and engagement plan.
So thinking about audience's, location, that sort
of segmentation, um, is really a live issue
for us at the moment because we know
that we will only make a difference when people
can see and hear us.
And we've, we spent, you know, time building stuff
and now we need to be looking out more
and building, I guess there's that concept
of the social license because our work only works when the
profession understands and has buy-in.
So that's sort of, we've got the now approach,
but we're working on refining for the future as well.
Just one, one last question from me on this general point
is just the how, well the digital tools that support that,
um, I guess the underlying infrastructure
and then that out was engagement.
How, how will those work with
You? I, I would almost
think from that question
that you are on our board,
um, um, it's a very, so the board, the board board, um,
r and d challenging us in this space.
We have a, um, we have a program of enhancement
with our main database, which is imis, uh,
and which itself is A CRM, but we don't use it that way.
It's really at the heart of us having the high quality data
and insights that, that we want.
Um, at the moment we are still a little bit in a halfway
house of doing some stuff manually, so we are not
as efficient as we could be
and it makes it harder to draw some of those insights.
Um, I would just, uh, say that the, IM a database
again was actually one of the things that came
with mandatory registration.
So we, we, we built it in 20 20, 20 21
as mandatory was coming in.
And because in that year we had over 2000 applications,
which was quite a high volume for us.
Um, you know, our focus was on get it built, let let,
because that's when we, you're also moving
to online, uh, applications.
So that was our focus
and now we, we've got a bit of clear air to go back, okay,
what are the other things we need from it?
So one of the areas, for example,
is better understanding the flow of complaints
and the trends and complaints.
So right now we can do manual stuff on that, it's fine,
but actually to really dig in, we want to
have the heavy lifting done by our IT infrastructure.
Um, I can also have a provider assurance
that we also do regular, um, cybersecurity audits.
So we are pretty comfortable with our system.
We are in the cloud, but we've got
good protections in place.
Um, and again, I think it's one of the things we are small
means we can be nimble and when we went into COVID, we,
we got, uh, you know, people home
and online probably within three or four days.
So unlike some of the big agencies which have, you know,
multiple layers, that's the sort of thing
that we can really navigate quite quickly.
Um, but we wanna make sure that we are doing it
with a really, um, keen eye on the risks also that come
with some of the things that, that flexibility brings.
And we don't wanna get into analyzing data
and coming up with the wrong answers if we
haven't got the right inputs.
I, I just want to add to that from the boss perspective.
So there's an element of this, which is a kind of, we need
to do the basics well,
which is making sure the existing system functions well.
But, um, uh, that if you like,
the pressure from the board is looking ahead.
So I know at the board meeting next week,
there's a paper coming to us about the use of AI
and how that might strengthen our processes.
Bit of a double-edged source for us
because we can see how it may enhance what we do,
but we are already experiencing the use of AI by applicants
for social work registration, particularly from overseas.
Um, and we need to, uh, we've kind
of got a cautionary approach currently about how we manage
that and our screening.
Right. It's an area we need to consider carefully.
Okay, thank you. Um, Maureen,
Um, thank you Mr. Chair.
Um, so in terms of the legislation, you know, that's,
that's stretched out the timeline now for registration.
Have you got, um, a sense of
how many are still in the workforce that are not registered?
And what is the recruitment
or the encouragement that you're able to give them?
Yeah, that's a very good question.
I think, so again, I speak as a non practitioner, but,
but probably, I mean, the advantage in a way
of being a non practitioner is, is bringing that voice
of the public or the consumer into the conversation.
Um, social work doesn't have any restricted activities.
So, so anyone can do things that a social worker does,
but they can't call themselves a social worker.
And it means that drawing those boundaries around
what is social work and what is not social work is,
is quite difficult and often requires a conversation
Attached to the select committee at the time.
Yes, I can imagine, um, with the changes
that came in earlier in the year that has given us, uh, the,
the responsibility of investigating complaints
where someone has been held out as a social worker
but are not registered.
So this actually allows us at quite a sort
of strategic level to engage in slightly
different conversations.
Um, you, you see in the presentation, you know,
this regulatory pyramid of, of responsive regulation.
And, and our starting point is always trying to educate,
provide guidance, help people make the, the choice that
that, that, you know, serves our purpose.
So in that complaint space
for non-registered social workers,
if there's the possibility for them to become registered,
IE they hold a social work qualification,
they're working in the social services
or health space, people would have, you know, sort of on a,
on a reasonable basis, think they're social work,
a social worker, then we would be encouraging them
to become registered.
And, and that's quite successful in terms of
that wider population.
There was a piece of work we did last year, um, on,
it was as part of the, the,
the work on the pay equity settlement for social workers
where we looked at a category of people doing
what was in effect social work according
to the definitions within the pay equity process,
but who were not registered.
So they were eligible for the pay equity settlement,
but are not on our register.
And they're around 1400 of those.
Uh, we think there's probably a bigger pool
because part of the conditions for that, uh, was that the,
um, the role reported to a social worker.
So there is, it's not to say there aren't some some public
safety mechanisms around that.
Um, so, so when, when registration came in,
we did quite a big information campaign, uh, and,
and that was funded by government, which was fantastic.
I think at the point now we're estimating,
which is asked under 550 new registrations in the next year,
there is still a pull if we can bring them over
because, uh, it,
it's this fundamental thing about a stronger profession
together, but there is cost
and compliance that comes with it.
So for people who can operate by doing social work,
similar things, uh,
that's still a valid pathway for them to do.
And, and there will be other protections,
whether it's at an employer level
or, um, through, uh, through the,
the child protection mechanisms.
I think in the longer term there's probably, um,
a different conversation to have and,
and in the review of the act, um,
we are looking very much at just making what we do better.
I think there will be things for the future,
but we really need to make sure
that we are doing the best we can now.
And that includes trying to attract people in.
Uh, what happens to the group
to the side is probably a future conversation.
Uh, and again, from the board's perspective,
we are looking at, I mean, I think, um, you're right,
the section 13 pathways coming to an end.
Yeah. Um, uh,
and, um, what's becoming really clear from that?
So the section 13 pathway, as you probably know, um,
is quite historic and was built really
for a particular cohort of practitioners.
And, and that cohort in a way is almost, is
in many ways has aged out starting to age out.
So what we are seeing in the section 13 applications, which
Is an experience pathway, not just
Experience, um, is that we are seeing people who want
to convert their kind
of current knowledge into social
work being their social workers.
It might be teachers and so on,
or people who want to step up.
Um, so they've done a lot of, uh, support work, good,
good practitioners,
but actually want to get to the next stage of their career.
Um, social, the section 13 process is not designed
to manage that.
So that's very much part
of the conversation in the workforce strategy.
Um, and I believe MSD are doing work on future pathways,
but that conversion one
and that stepping up foot one is quite an important one.
'cause what we know about our workforce is we are aging,
the average age is 45, um,
and we know that the supply chain
through academia is slowing down.
Mm-hmm. And there's a significant resource across
New Zealand that we, you know, need to be tapped into.
Mm-hmm. So there's an immediate answer for the,
your section 13 question, other than we continue
to see applications flow through
and some very good ones that's that, um, that kind of meet
that old kind of set of criteria.
Um, but, but, but you know, it is on its way
and it needs to be replaced and,
and replaced in a way which meets the real needs
that we are seeing in, in the people
who do apply to be registered.
So supplementary, Laura, um, thank you Mr.
Chair and thank you for, um, coming along today.
And my question, I guess, kind
of follows on from what you're talking about.
So what would be the biggest benefit
of then being registered
and how do you plan on making that more attractive in order
to draw over the ones that aren't?
Because like you said, some of them got the paid equity,
so they don't have to then deal
with the bureaucracy of being registered.
So what is the goal to get them?
So I think, I mean, it's, it, it's, it's,
it's an extremely good question
'cause it actually speaks to the heart of both what we do.
But occupational regulation in general,
I guess I'd say we are,
we are slightly different from a number
of occupational regulators
because we also have this workforce function.
Mm-hmm. And it means that we sort of integrated in thinking,
you know, regulation through to workforce, uh, impacts
that other regulators might not consider in the same way
when we did the information campaign, it,
it really was the message about stronger together.
And I think that's still valid.
Part of the, part of the framing is so,
so people are involved in this profession
because they wanna make a difference.
You know, they may have lived experience, um,
that they wanna turn into something positive.
Um, so, so there's lots of opportunity there.
It's helping them understand that part of the flip side
is being able to demonstrate that accountability
to the communities they work with.
So for some, they will already feel
that they have those accountability mechanisms, uh, to,
to whanau to the community.
We, we need to be positioning that there's another layer
that with, you know, if you're an employer, you have, um,
a way of managing some of the risk
because you've got some external assurance
of the people you're employing as a practitioner
at an individual level.
It's not so much about you as the individual, it's building
that system trust.
So there's a, there's a piece of work that we are doing.
And I guess really what I'm trying to say there,
there is no silver bullet.
It's lots of pieces joined up
and there's a piece of work that we did a couple
of years ago that we are refreshing as part
of our doing the review of the act, which is
around public trust in the profession.
Because in the end, that's, that's, you know,
sort of why, why we're here.
And, and there's some challenges, I think,
for the profession and the wider community about
what their aspirations as a profession are.
And if part of that is that they're working in a profession
that is trusted and valued, then one
of the ways they demonstrate that is participating in the,
in, in the regulatory framework,
because that's part of what enhances professionalism.
But that's quite a, that's quite a long journey
to get someone through when actually they just wanna be
delivering on the ground to this person now.
So, so I think, um, you know, that idea
of engagement and using the opportunity of this new function
to be reaching out to those, um, people
who might be doing social work who are not registered,
allows us to start to have some
of those wider conversations.
And it's a shift for both the individual practitioner
but also the employer.
One of the things that social work is very fortunate in,
in my view, is that a very high proportion of employers
support their practitioners through praying,
paying their annual practicing certificate.
Um, but we need also employers to be stepping alongside us
because if we try to like recruit, you know, maybe,
you know, 200 extra social workers,
if employers aren't in a position to back them through CPD
through supervision,
through praying their practicing certificate,
we'd set up a situation
where actually we could be setting people up
to not be successful as we'd want to.
So that's what I mean, it's a multi,
it's a multi-pronged approach.
And, and as Mike said, you know,
social work has been mandatory since 2021.
You think of professions like nursing or, or,
or law, um, or accountancy.
They've been professions for many, many, many,
many, many years.
So we are at the start of the journey and,
and when I came into the role,
I thought it will take at least five years.
I actually now think it will probably take at least 10.
Right? We've got a good base,
but actually this is a culture shift for the sector
and for the public in terms of them understanding
what they can expect.
So it's, it's two sides of the coin.
So I know that's a very roundabout answer,
but it just reflects that it's,
I I could just say we're gonna do an information campaign,
but, but it needs to be more than that.
I, I think, if I've heard your question correctly, um,
I think anecdotally,
I don't think we would think there are too many people
who are social workers who are not registered.
'cause there's always been the power,
but vest in somebody else to investigate people
who might be representing themselves
as social workers, but not be registered.
I think those numbers are very small.
That function has now come to us,
and that may well provide em with some insights.
So I, it's, so I think so.
So when we're talking about other social workers who are,
who are not registered,
I think the answer is they may be very small
because people are well aware, very responsible
employers are what we're, I think
what Sarah's talking about is
that wide professional base people that are doing the work.
Yeah. So there are people who might be doing work
that is similar but actually couldn't be registered
'cause they wouldn't meet the very clear criteria.
Can I, um, Ask a supplement supplementary will
Look, I, I, um, just my background as I had many,
many social workers work for me in my previous roles.
Some of my best social workers were not qualified. Mm-hmm.
So I'm just, uh, you know,
and you know, some of my social work workers,
ex gang members, um, they come off the streets.
They just want to give, they want to redeem themselves.
One of the big complaints they had was, was this, is that,
that you've made it too hard for some of them to continue.
And so I'm worried about, you know, that, that you,
you're balancing this public trust in the profession
with the reality, which is that some
of our best now are missing out.
Now. That's what they were saying to me.
Uh, they've been saying to me for years now, I've,
obviously, I'm not in that role,
but I'm still connected in that role anyway
as a chairman of a a.
So, you know, I still see my old social workers
and a number of them have come out,
fallen out of the profession.
So, um, I'm, I'm worried about where we're at.
Uh, you think you've, you know, we're just too tough.
Now in terms of this,
are you worrying too much about the public, uh, the public,
uh, you know, where the public essence in terms
of the reality on the street?
Um, well, I suppose I wouldn't disagree with that.
I guess the reality is that if the pathway for those people,
the section 13 pathway is coming to an end.
And, and so the challenge is about
what do you put in place in, in, in place of that
to meet the kind of need you've described.
Mm-hmm. I think that,
and I don't think there's any,
there's no denial, I think of what you've seen.
I think that is right. Um, you know,
the current criteria other than section 13 is
that you hold a, um, professional qualification
for really clear, when we look at, um, uh,
professional qualifications of academic route,
for many people, that is challenging.
Yes. Um, both in terms of entry, in terms of cost,
the length of the degree,
because I think we're gonna
miss out on something, aren't we?
You know, you know, in terms of the Well, there's, well,
there's a, well, if you've got an aging workforce and it's,
and we're losing social workers,
there's a workforce out there, we need to,
um, no, I'm talking about that.
I'm talking about what these people bring to the table. Yes.
Yes. I think I'm saying the same thing.
I think we're missing out. You're right.
I think, I think if I could just add too,
that we also hear concerns about people who have,
for various reasons, things in their past
that they may perceive as being a barrier.
Yes. What I would say is, is there is,
that's probably more at the perception level rather than the
reality because, um,
because we on a regular basis have applications
before the board where individuals have, have, uh,
have lists of con convictions.
The question for the board at that point is balancing
this person has a, has a past.
And one of the things they'll often ask themselves is,
have they taken, undertaken their qualification after,
after those, those experiences.
So the, the education has been part
of their redemption redemptive journey.
And by and large, the board, if it feels that the,
the safety can be managed, we'll register them.
So, so convictions isn't so much of a problem.
It's people thinking it might be a problem and,
and maybe hesitating to, to reach out.
Um, but we know that there's a good portion
of of those who do.
And I think, I think we've got quite a high proportion
of our, um, of those who apply,
who we can successfully navigate
through might be with some conditions.
You know, it might be get supervision, it might be, um,
a report back to us in progress in six months.
But often those situations can be managed.
It's really people having the confidence to come
to us in the first place and ask the question,
is this gonna be a barrier?
Um, thank you.
Uh, couple, one, Mike to you and then to Sarah, Mike.
So your new board of, you've got some positions to fill.
Understand. So how, um, do you have any, um,
Maori competency on your board?
Do you have Maori individuals competent
and able to bring that
To you? Yes, we, we
do. Um,
and our, uh, current, um, um,
potential gap in the board is around Pacifica.
Mm-hmm. Um, and,
and so, um, uh,
the current recruitment round is looking at that as a need.
Um, thank you. I just wanted to, the
Other bit, I'd say we're also supported by, uh, Kahui,
Right. Maori Advisor
group, um, with whom, yes.
Um, I, as the board chair have a very direct
relationship. Um,
What's the numbers, what's the numbers
of Maori on your book?
There are one Maori on the
Bar and six non-Maori.
Six non-Maori. Okay. Okay. That needs to change.
Just offering that advice.
Um, Sarah, so I guess it's a similar thing.
I'm keen to know on the ground mm-hmm.
Um, the, the competency
'cause so, uh,
credentialed social worker, but not registered mm-hmm.
Decided just got a bit too, um, in my way Yeah. To be frank.
Yeah. And that is because it didn't match my level
of competency mm-hmm.
And ability to do the work. Mm-hmm.
And it's a little bit like what Willie was saying.
I think there's a, there's a perception that it should,
and, you know, it might technically,
but from a cultural mm-hmm.
Uh, imperative, that's what failed then.
And I am concerned with all the best intention
that it still mm-hmm.
Doesn't deliver. Mm-hmm.
Um, and well, it doesn't, does I, we've
Got two more people course one ask questions as
Well of my apologies. Yeah.
Just Wanna get some confidence from
You. Yeah. So one of the
challenges
that the outgoing chair presented, uh, was,
uh, that the organization truly become responsive.
Um, and I think we have made good progress.
We have, um, we have,
I think it's about 8% of staff identify as Maori.
Uh, but more importantly,
we have taken, um, time to really embed
out Maori development framework
because actually our ability
to engage doesn't rest on our Maori staff.
It rests on all of us.
So our Maori staff are supported,
but actually we need to step up.
Uh, and I think I, I feel quite confident, like,
I'm not saying we have everything perfect,
and I'm not saying we're at the end of the journey,
but our staff are really committed to, to working
with Maori, to working with diverse communities, uh,
in a way that, uh, supports the person to engage with us.
Well, even if say in the complaint space, it's something
that there are some difficult conversations.
Our ability to actually work
with people is really important.
And, and one of the things that, um, uh, that's side aside,
and it's maybe a little, it might feel a bit light,
but we've just moved into a new office this week
and around the office, uh, are, um,
what looked like our koku panels of, um,
the representation of our various work areas.
And staff are immensely proud of them
because they understand the significance to all,
to all communities.
But in particular, it's the challenge to ourselves.
And we see that on our register around 25%, identify
as Maori for a regulated profession that's pretty high.
That, that challenges us to make sure we continue
to deliver in a way that works. Thank you, sir.
I'm gonna, um, One minute.
So I have to ask some very concise questions and answers.
Follow Just a quick one,
which has already been touched a few times mm-hmm.
About complaints. Mm-hmm.
Um, what is the, do you have a top three, um,
complaints issue?
And does this inform the work of mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Yes. That's my very short answer. Yes.
Um, the top three would be, um, would be, well,
the complaints that come in the door would actually be
things that don't necessarily meet the threshold
because they are related to some sort of vexatious
or element of that, of that non-choice relationship.
Uh, and then I'd say, uh, boundaries, management
of boundaries and, uh,
and probably, um, co low, low levels
of conduct or communication.
So currently we have nine
investigations at a complaints level,
like at a next elevated level, PCC level.
So the volume of complaints is high,
but the seriousness of them is quite low.
And last question, Helen. Thank you.
Um, first all I was gonna say,
I realize it's an incredibly difficult job being a social
worker and, um, trying to, um, give that shape
and, um, appropriate boundaries must be
extremely challenging.
So thank you for everything that you're doing.
Um, in your, um, your model, your triangle here. Mm-hmm.
You've got, um, that sort of the base
of your triangle being the core competency standards
and, um, the building the social worker capability.
Um, I very much appreciate the lived experiences
coming into this picture.
Can you just tell us in a really practical way,
what are the most important things that we can do
and we can fund, uh, in that area of building
safe capability for people that may be coming from
a background where they haven't had that kind of discipline?
A big question I have to ask. Short answer
A good question. Uh,
maybe I'll, maybe I'll, I'll, I'll I'll say
where our current thinking is,
because that's a future possibility.
You sort of invited us
to talk about the future at the beginning.
That's where I kind of wanna go.
Where do you wanna go? What do we need to do?
I, I think actually there's two pieces
and I'm trying to go, I'm going try and be very fast.
So we are working on
and want to do more of, uh, uh,
resources a little bit like in response to complaints of
where we know there are things
that practitioners in my head, it's sort of a bit like
marketing to people to help them
understand their obligations.
And we are building resources in that area,
partly based off the trends we see in complaints,
but also working with employers to ensure that they, they,
they are meeting, uh, yeah.
You know what, what will help the practitioner be safe
overseas in, in England, they are running a campaign, um,
called Change the Script, which is also about rethinking
how the public think about social work.
And that's the sort of in, in aspirational space.
That's the sort of thing that I would like us to get
to change the script.
Yep. Do you think you could send us some material?
I can. Thank you. I can.
Well, thank you very much both, uh, for your time.
Morning. Really appreciate it.
And thank you to everyone that you help support
for awesome work they do for Heres across the country.
Thank you.